The Project Gutenberg EBook of Minnewaska Mountain Houses, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Minnewaska Mountain Houses

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: October 15, 2013 [EBook #43958]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MINNEWASKA MOUNTAIN HOUSES ***




Produced by Chuck Greif (This file was produced from images
available at The Internet Archive)






Minnewaska

Mountain

Houses

1898




[Illustration: The Wildmere House]

[Illustration: The Cliff House]




Lake Minnewaska

IS located on the summit of the Shawangunk Mountains, ten miles
southwest of New Paltz, in Ulster County, New York. New Paltz, a station
on the Wallkill Valley Railroad, is eighty-eight miles (about three and
one-half hours) distant from New York; nine miles west of Poughkeepsie,
on the Hudson, and fifteen miles southwest of Kingston. N.Y.

This lake, which is fed by springs and is very deep and clear as
crystal, is held in a strikingly picturesque, rocky and well-wooded
bowl, rising one hundred and fifty feet above the lake on the eastern
side and sixty feet on the western, and from either edge the rocks
tumble precipitously down to the Wallkill and Hudson River Valleys on
the one side, and to the Rondout Valley on the other.

Minnewaska is now widely known as a summer resort:

_First_. For the remarkably bracing and restoring quality of its
atmosphere. It being on the crown of a ridge, dew seldom falls. The
drainage of each house is away from the lake and far down the mountain
side, and the hills all around are covered with resinous pine forests.

_Second_. For the remarkably select character of the guests who frequent
the place, a large portion of whom return year after year.

_Third_. For the wonderful and unique combination of the grand and the
picturesque in its scenery.

Awosting

Falls

Within a mile of the lake are these picturesque falls, above sixty feet
high; and about half a mile lower down, the same stream falls over one
hundred feet by a series of pretty cascades.

[Illustration: Awosting falls]

[Illustration: The Wildmere]

[Illustration: Awosting Lake]

The Great

Crevices

About three-quarters of a mile distant are a series of wonderful rents
in the mountains over one hundred feet deep, some of the fissures being
open to the light and others covered.

Millbrook

Mountains

One and three-fourths miles from the lake are the Millbrook Mountains,
where the cliffs are in some places perpendicular, and in others
over-hanging the rocks five hundred feet below. The views here are
remarkably grand and impressive.

The

Palmaghatt

Still nearer, in a deep glen of the mountain, is the Palmaghatt, where
is a large forest of massive primeval hemlocks. To all these and many
other strange and picturesque places, good walks have been constructed,
and a large number of covered seats and summer-houses (about ninety in
all) have been built. Three drives have been built recently to Millbrook
Mountains, Kempton Ledge, and Beacon Hill.

Awosting

Lake

Since last season over two thousand acres adjoining Minnewaska have been
added to the estate, which now covers above five thousand acres of land.
This new tract includes the magnificent Awosting Lake, having four times
the extent of Lake Minnewaska; also the lofty High Point; the bold
Hamilton Ledge, several miles long and several hundred feet in
perpendicular height; the picturesque Stonykill Falls, ninety-five feet
high, and much other strange scenery peculiar to the Shawangunk
Mountains.

New

Roads

A fine road, three and one-half miles long, has been built from
Minnewaska to Awosting Lake, passing through the wild Huntington Ravine
(Dark Hole). During the spring and summer this road will be extended
around the lake four and one-half miles farther. Another road has been
built through the Palmaghatt to the edge of Hamilton Ledge. All these
roads are of very easy grades, being for the most part nearly level, and
are specially adapted to the use of the bicycle.

[Illustration: The ferns]

[Illustration: Undercliff]

Approaches to

Minnewaska

By West Shore Railroad to Kingston, and by special trains to New Paltz.

By New York, Ontario & Western Railway from New York to New Paltz, via
Cornwall and Campbell Hall.

By New York Central & Hudson River Railroad or by New York and Albany
day boats to Kingston Point, and by rail to New Paltz.

By New York, Lake Erie & Western Railroad to Goshen, and by Wallkill
Valley Railroad to New Paltz.

The Highland & New Paltz Electric Railroad will make good connections
with New York Central and West Shore trains at Poughkeepsie and
Highland.

After the summer time-tables are arranged, schedules of trains, etc.,
will be sent on application.

Tickets from New York, Brooklyn, and Philadelphia will be sold to and
from New Paltz, and baggage checked through.

Parties wishing to inspect the rooms in May will be met at the train
upon proper notice being given, and when wishing to stay over night, can
be comfortably accommodated at one of the houses.

[Illustration: The Wildmere]

The Cliff House

Opened in 1879 and enlarged in 1881, will accommodate about two hundred
and twenty-five guests.

This house is located on the eastern side of the lake on a commanding
height, eighteen hundred feet above tide-water, or nearly as high as the
Catskill Mountain House; and from nearly every room in the hotel there
are magnificent valley and mountain views, taking in the mountains of
New Jersey on the south; the highlands of the Hudson and Newburg Bay to
the southeast; the Housatonic Mountains of Connecticut to the east; the
whole line of the Berkshire Mountains of Massachusetts and the Green
Mountains of Vermont to the northeast; the Helderberg Mountains to the
north; the bold outline of the Catskills and the Shandaken Mountains to
the northwest: and the Neversink and Shawangunk Hills to the west. The
views embrace several river valleys, including the valley of the Hudson
from Cornwall to the mountains about Lake George. From the cupola of
this house six States can be seen at one view.

To accommodate the constantly increasing patronage, a new hotel was
opened in 1887 on the western edge of this rocky rim, called the

Wildmere house

This is somewhat larger than the Cliff House, and commands very similar
views. The Wildmere is lighted with gas, the halls are heated by
furnaces, while the rooms, both public and private, are mostly provided
with open fireplaces for burning the resinous mountain pine that abounds
in this region. A large portion of the rooms in both houses are provided
with private balconies.

[Illustration]

Reading Rooms.

In each house is a large and well-lighted reading-room, containing all
the leading English and American monthly and quarterly periodicals and
weekly and daily papers, and also a carefully selected library of books
for reading and reference.

Postal and Telegraph Offices

Will be open during the season at the lake. Telegrams should be
addressed to Lake Minnewaska, N. Y., and letters to Minnewaska P. O.,
Ulster County, N. Y.

A Good Physician

Will reside permanently at the lake.

The Wildmere house

Opens June 15th and closes October 1st to 10th.

The Cliff house

Opens June 29th and closes about September 15th.

Both Minnewaska houses

Will be kept on a strictly TEMPERANCE PLAN. The same arrangements with
regard to meats, fruits, cream, etc., that have made the table so
satisfactory for the past nineteen years, have been made for the coming
season.

Visitors

Are not expected to arrive or depart on Sunday.

No dogs taken.

Rates of

Board.

_June_: single rooms, $11 to $14; double rooms. $22 to $25. _July and
August_: single rooms, $15 to $20; double rooms, $25 to $35. _From
September 1st to close of the season:_ single rooms, $14 to $16; double
rooms, $25 to $28. Day rates: _June_. $2; _July and August_, $3; _after
September 1st_, $2.50. Liberal arrangements will be made for families
coming early.

For further information, address

ALFRED H. SMILEY. Proprietor, MINNEWASKA P. O., N. Y.

[Illustration: Summer house on Lake]

Boating.

Boat liveries are operated in connection with both houses. They are
provided with the celebrated St. Lawrence River skiffs, which can be
rented by the week or day, with or without oarsmen, at reasonable rates.
Eight skiffs have been added to the fleet since last season. Owing to
the land-locked location of the lake, ladies and children can enjoy the
pleasures of boating with perfect safety.

Bathing.

Another of the many attractions of the lake is the delightful
still-water bathing. The water is soft, becomes warm early in the
season, and the bathing is free from enervating effects usually
experienced in fresh-water bathing. Two new bath-houses, exclusively for
ladies, have been constructed, and a bathing-master and life-guard are
always present to assist ladies and children.

Recreation.

Exercise in the open air is acknowledged by every one to be of the
greatest assistance in the recuperation of the nervous system and a
grand specific for building up the physical body. Every effort has been
put forth to stimulate and foster active exercise. Walking parties find
each year new paths leading through deep forests to quiet recesses of
the mountains and points of vantage hitherto unapproachable.

Sports, Etc.

The ball ground, tennis courts, bowling alleys and shuffle boards give
an ample field for the spirit of contest, while the many delightful
walks and drives meet the requirements of those in search of moderate
exercise.

Verderskill falls.

A view of this charming cascade is shown on this page. The falls are
situated two miles beyond Awosting Lake.

References

THE management at Lake Minnewaska has aimed to provide the comforts of a
good home at reasonable rates for the refined and moral classes, where
they could enjoy the splendid scenery without molestation from the fast
and rougher elements of society. That this object has been attained, the
proprietor would respectfully refer to the following persons, nearly all
of whom have remained at the lake for a considerable period of
time--many of them for several years in succession. None of these
persons have been consulted as to this use of their names, but any of
them, doubtless, if approached at proper times, would be glad to give
any information they may possess about the lake. The names are selected
to represent a variety of professions and circles of society and are
arranged alphabetically.

NEW YORK.

Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Abbott, 13 Astor Place.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Robt. K. Booth, 177 West End Ave.

Prof. and Mrs. H. Carrington Bolton, University Club

Mr. and Mrs. Win. B. Boulton, 13 E. 34th St.

Dr. D. M. Cammann, 19 E. 33d St.

Mr. and Mrs. Herman H. Cammann, 43 W. 38th St.

Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Clarkson, 15 W. 45th St.

Dr. Floyd M. Crandall, 113 W. 95th St.

Dr. D. Bryson Delevan, 1 E. 33d St.

Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Dodd, 222 W. 70th St.

Prof, and Mrs. Chas. A. Doremus, 59 W. 51st St.

Mr. and Mrs. B. Greef, 106 Spring St.

Mr. Samuel B. Haines, 52 E. 78th St.

Mr. Daniel Huntington, 49 E. 20th St.

Miss Cornelia Jay, 155 W. 58th St.

Dr. John Jay.

Rev. and Mrs. E. H. Krans, 33 W. 12th St.

Mr. and Mrs. H. Pi. Laidlaw, 31 W. 73rd St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Peck, 22 E. 55th St.

Mrs. T. M. Peters, 264 W. 94th St.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Pierce, 333 W. 85th St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. M. Spackman, 820 Madison Ave.

Ki v. and Mrs. L. H. Schwab, 101 Lawrence St.

Mr. and Mrs. James Talcott, 7 W. 57th St.

Mr. W. VanNorden, 16 W. 48th St.

Dr. and Mrs. Richard VanSantvord, 106 W. 122d St.

Mr. F. S. Wait, 1 E. 39th St.

Dr. and Mrs. Jos. E. Winters, 25 W. 37th St.


[Illustration: Peterskill falls]

BROOKLYN.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Lyman Abbott, Columbia Heights.

Rev. and Mrs. J. A. Billingsley, 446 Macon St.

Mr. and Mrs. Albert Bruen, 256 Cumberland St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. B. Crittenden, 66 Willow St.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. Cromwell, 29 Brevoort Place.

Mr. and Mrs. T. Henry Dewey, 95 Willow St.

Mr. A. H. DeWitt, 120 Willow St.

Dr. and Mrs. Z. Taylor Emory, 481 Washington Ave.

Miss M. Latimer, 63 Remsen St.

Dr. and Mrs. E. A. Lewis, 102 Pierrepont St.

Mr. Edward Merritt, 3 Monroe Place.

Mrs. James Miller, 21 Schermerhorn St.

Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Ruland, 292 Greene Ave.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. F. Squibb, 152 Columbia Heights.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Tiebout, 112 Prospect Park, West.

Mr. and Mrs. John J. Williams, 401 Clinton Ave.

PHILADELPHIA.

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. W. Baker, Chestnut Hill.

Miss H. S. Benson, Chestnut Hill.

Hon. Craig Biddle, 2033 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. James S. Biddle, 1714 Locust St.

Mr. and Mis. J. C. Browne, 907 Clinton St.

Mr. W. H. Castle, 4241 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. B. B. Comegys, 4205 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Thos. P. Cope, Chew St., near Walnut.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Corson, 11th and Pine Sts.

Hon. and Mrs. Geo. M. Dallas, 1514 Pine St.

Rev. and Mrs. J. B. Douglass, 2213 Locust St.

Mr. and Mrs. Patterson Dubois, 1031 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Howard Evans, 2033 Locust St.

Mrs. Elizabeth H. Farnum, 1214 Arch St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. West Frazier, 701 S. Front St.

Mr. and Mrs. Philip Garrett, Logan P. O.

Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Gillingham, 5314 Knox St.

Mr. and Mrs. F. Ross Hansen, 3604 Barring St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. C. Harrison, 1618 Locust St.

Mrs. Geo. L. Harrison, School Lane.

Mr. Charles Hartshorne, 228 S. Third St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. S. Hinchman, 3635 Chestnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. B. Keen, 4210 Walnut St.

Dr. and Mrs. A. F. Kempton, 2118 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Lewis, 123 S. 22d St.

Rev. and Mrs. W. P. Lewis, 1346 Pine St.

Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Mellor, 2130 Mt. Vernon St.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Merrick, School Lane, Germantown.

Judge and Mrs. Clement B. Penrose, Germantown.

Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Prime, 1008 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Richardson, 1307 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. Edward S. Sayres, 1825 Spruce St.

Dr. Jos. A. Seiss, 1338 Spring Garden St.

Mr. and Mrs. Coleman Sellers, 3301 Barring St.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. C. Ellis Stevens, 2217 Spruce St.

Mrs. Wm. Bacon Stevens, 1914 S. Rittenhouse Sq.

Hon. and Mrs. M. Russell Thayer, 1824 Pine St.

Mr. Chas. W. Trotter, 2024 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. John G. Watmough, 2114 Walnut St.

Mr. and Mrs. Jos. M. Wilson, 1106 Spruce St.

Mr. and Mrs. C. Cresson Wistar, 5355 Knox St.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Wood. 2038 Spring Garden St.

Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Zanzinger, 1736 Pine St.

[Illustration: Cliff house Looking South]

MISCELLANEOUS.

Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Ackerman, Chicago, 111.

Dr. and Mrs. Francis Bacon, New Haven, Conn.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin, Irvington-on-Hudson.

Rev. and Mrs. Alfred B. Baker, Princeton, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Thos. P. Barn field, Pan-tucket, R. I.

Gen. and Mrs. John S. Berry, Baltimore, Md.

Mr. J. R. Campbell, Oil City, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. G. S. Capelle, Wilmington, Del.

Mrs. I. W. Cochran, Morristown, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. Geo. E. Day, Divinity School, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. James W. DeGraff, Plainfield, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Doane, Auburn Ave., Cincinnati, O.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eddison, Irvington-on-Hudson.

Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Elliot, Baltimore, Md.

Prof. Geo. P. Fisher, New Haven, Conn.

Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Frissell, Hampton, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. Theodore Gilman, Palisade Avenue. Yonkers, N. Y.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. C. Glover, 20 Lafayette Square, Washington, D. C.

Judge and Mrs. A. B. Hagner, Washington, D. C.

Rev. Teunis F. Hamlin, 1306 Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C.

Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Hicks, Old Westbury, L. I.

Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Higbee, Cleveland, O.

Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Holman, Tenerly, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. H. T. Hull, Morristown, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. T. W. Hunt, Princeton, N. J.

Mrs. George Inness, Montclair, N. J.

Rev. and Mrs. D. O. Irving, East Orange, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Geo. E. Ketchum, 135 Locust Hill Ave., Yonkers, N. Y.

Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Kilborne, Orange, N. J.

Rev. and Mrs. J. P. E. Kumler, 413 S. Highland Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Langdon, Elizabeth, N. J.

Miss Grace Denio Litchfield, Washington, D. C.

Rev. and Mrs. James M. Ludlow, East Orange, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Wm. D. Murray, Plainfield, N. J.

Mrs. Henry J. Owen, 10 Mercer St., Princeton, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Patterson, Plainfield, N. J.

Prof, and Mrs. Frank C. Porter, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Price, Newark, N. J.

Hon. and Mrs. F. O. Prince, 311 Beacon St., Boston.

Rev. Geo. T. Purves, Princeton, N. J.

Pres. and Mrs. G. W. Smith, Trinity College, Hartford, Conn.

Mrs. C. E. Stockley, Euclid Place, Cleveland, O.

Mrs. N. H. Swayne, Toledo, O.

Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Tillinghast, Englewood, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. J. Evarts Tracy. Plainfield, N. J.

Rev. Dr. and Mrs. A. G. Vermilye, Englewood, N. J.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Dudley Warner, Hartford, Conn.

Gen. and Mrs. J. H. Watmouth, Washington, D. C.

Prof, and Mrs. J. F. Weir, New Haven, Conn.

Mrs. J. Willock, Allegheny, Pa.

Mr. and Mrs. Geo. P. Wilson, 4 First St., Albany.

Mrs. C. P. Wurts, New Haven, Conn.

Mr. and Mrs. Ellis Yarnall, Haverford College, Pa.

[Illustration: The Wildmere Cliff Summer houses]

[Illustration: The Cliffs from Wildmere]

[Illustration: Lake Shore Walk]

[Illustration]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Minnewaska Mountain Houses, by Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MINNEWASKA MOUNTAIN HOUSES ***

***** This file should be named 43958.txt or 43958.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/3/9/5/43958/

Produced by Chuck Greif (This file was produced from images
available at The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
